README.md, before:

# Python 3.13 threading (i.e., no-GIL) recipes

The submodules in this repository are all branches of [Anaconda recipes](https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes). They can easily be merged upstream if and when necessary.


## General building instructions

- Add `add_pip_as_python_dependency: False` to your `~/.condarc`.

- Either add the `ad-testing/label/py313_nogil` channel to your `.condarc` or always pass it to `conda build`.
  For example, when building `meson`:  
  `conda build --no-test -c ad-testing/label/py313_nogil meson-feedstock`

- Always run `conda build` from the top directory in this repository.
  It will pick up the local `conda_build_config.yaml` which contains required configurations.


## Build order for core packages

1. `python`

2. `python_abi`

3. `pip`[^1]

4. These two packages in any order:
   - `setuptools`
   - `flit`[^2]

5. `python-installer`

6. `wheel`

7. `pyproject-matadata`

8. `meson-python`


## Building `meson-python`

`meson python` should be built after the core packages.

Build all packages first with the `--no-test` option, then, once all packages are built, run their tests with `--test`:

Build order:

1. Build these in no specific order:
  - `cython`
  - `meson`
  - `pretend`
  - `pyparsing`
  - `pytest`
  - `poetry-core` (linux only)

2. Build these in no specific order:
  - `packaging`
  - `pyproject-metadata`
  - `pkgconfig` (linux only)

3. `meson-python`


## Building `numpy`

### Dependencies

Build `numpy` with `--no-test` first.

`numpy` build dependencies:
  - `python-build`
    - `pyproject_hooks`

Then all build dependencies, then `numpy` without `-no-test`.

`numpy` test dependencies:
  - `mypy` (disable MYPYC until we can fix the compiler issues, tests fail)
    - `mypy_extensions`
    - `typing_extensions`
    - `type-setuptools`
    - `type-psutil`
    - `psutil`
    - `mkl-service`
    - `pytz`
  - `hypothesis`
    - `attrs`
      - `hatchling`
        - `pathspec`
        - `editables`
        - `trove-classifiers`
          - `calver`
        - `pluggy`
      - `hatch-vcs`
        - `setuptools_scm`
    - `black`
    - `pandas` (`numpy` not installable?)
  - `pytest-cov`
    - `coverage`


[^1]: The current recipe will install files from a wheel file. The package may need to be built again from the source distribution for correctness.
[^2]: The current recipe will only build the `flit-core` package. The recipe will need to be built again without the `bootstrap`` setting to produce the `flit` package.

Commit message:

add requests build instructions to README.md

README.md, after:

# Python 3.13 threading (i.e., no-GIL) recipes

The submodules in this repository are all branches of [Anaconda recipes](https://github.com/AnacondaRecipes). They can easily be merged upstream if and when necessary.


## General building instructions

- Add `add_pip_as_python_dependency: False` to your `~/.condarc`.

- Either add the `ad-testing/label/py313_nogil` channel to your `.condarc` or always pass it to `conda build`.
  For example, when building `meson`:  
  `conda build --no-test -c ad-testing/label/py313_nogil meson-feedstock`

- Always run `conda build` from the top directory in this repository.
  It will pick up the local `conda_build_config.yaml` which contains required configurations.


## Build order for core packages

1. `python`

2. `python_abi`

3. `pip`[^1]

4. These two packages in any order:
   - `setuptools`
   - `flit`[^2]

5. `python-installer`

6. `wheel`

7. `pyproject-matadata`

8. `meson-python`


## Building `meson-python`

`meson python` should be built after the core packages.

Build all packages first with the `--no-test` option, then, once all packages are built, run their tests with `--test`:

Build order:

1. Build these in no specific order:
  - `cython`
  - `meson`
  - `pretend`
  - `pyparsing`
  - `pytest`
  - `poetry-core` (linux only)

2. Build these in no specific order:
  - `packaging`
  - `pyproject-metadata`
  - `pkgconfig` (linux only)

3. `meson-python`


## Building `numpy`

### Dependencies

Build `numpy` with `--no-test` first.

`numpy` build dependencies:
  - `python-build`
    - `pyproject_hooks`

Then all build dependencies, then `numpy` without `-no-test`.

`numpy` test dependencies:
  - `mypy` (disable MYPYC until we can fix the compiler issues, tests fail)
    - `mypy_extensions`
    - `typing_extensions`
    - `type-setuptools`
    - `type-psutil`
    - `psutil`
    - `mkl-service`
    - `pytz`
  - `hypothesis`
    - `attrs`
      - `hatchling`
        - `pathspec`
        - `editables`
        - `trove-classifiers`
          - `calver`
        - `pluggy`
      - `hatch-vcs`
        - `setuptools_scm`
    - `black`
    - `pandas` (`numpy` not installable?)
  - `pytest-cov`
    - `coverage`


## Building `requests`

`requests` can be built after `numpy` and `pandas` or ealier but will require a
different build order.

Build order:

1. Build these in no specific order:
    * `idna`
    * `certifi`
    * `pysocks`

2. `brotli-python` : one of the outputs from the brotli-feedstock.

3. `urllib3`

4. `requests`


[^1]: The current recipe will install files from a wheel file. The package may need to be built again from the source distribution for correctness.
[^2]: The current recipe will only build the `flit-core` package. The recipe will need to be built again without the `bootstrap`` setting to produce the `flit` package.
